A lot of my work, last semester and this semester, involved scoping out the design of the project. As far as actual development, my work started by implementing on the interfacing between a C# library and the Python analysis server using gRPC. Basically, the work I did was getting the skeleton of the project working. I then worked on getting the data set we planned to use. This involved writing a migration application, the Anonymizer, that took this third-party data and scrubbed out any identifying information.
  
While some technologies from last’s semester’s self-assessment essay, such as gRPC, were used in the final product, a lot of the plans and expected skills needed were not used like I expected because the scope of the project was reduced significantly. The largest challenge, however, was in acquiring the data. Because of the niche use case, there was not any publicly available data that was a good fit for what we were doing. What we ended up doing was asking a single person, the owner of a game server with a large users database, to lend us that data. This proved to be a challenge since doing this for us was a low priority for them, and it took them months to simply run the Anonymizer program and give us the data. In hindsight, we shouldn’t have depended on this single point of failure.

My teammates’ contribution was implementing the core analysis engine, which successfully returned users’ likelihood of being the same person. However, due to time constraints as well as the roadblocks from it taking so long to get the data, we did not have time to integrate the analysis engine with our intended production data stream. While we were able to process a small sample data set, our goal was to process data and return insights in real-time for the game server we were working with, and we didn’t have enough time to do this.

The challenges from this project can be attributed to several factors. For one, our team had relatively incompatible specializations, making it hard to choose a project that all of us would excel at. I had to go out of my comfort zone working on a data analytics application when my strengths are more focused towards cloud computing and web development. While I don’t have anything against my teammates, with different ones we wouldn’t have to compromise as much on which project we wanted to do, allowing us to excel at what we were best at. In addition, our project’s scope was too large, and throughout the semester, we kept cutting out more and more functionality. Ideally, we should have picked a less daunting project so that we could execute it more effectively. If I had to redo the project, I would keep these things in mind and choose team members that had more compatible backgrounds and choose a simpler project. Overall, however, we managed to produce working code that accomplished our essential goals.
